Documentation/portal-guide/source/portal-user-guide/my-profile/index.rst, before:

.. _my-profile:

My Profile
**********

Help you adjust your general settings, language, email settings and date format configuration.

|my-profile-save|

General settings
----------------

**General settings** allows you to configure some settings according to your requirements. This area
contains :guilabel:`Selected homepage` and :guilabel:`Show Welcome Tour`.

Process list configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This section has available options which help you to configure your Process list.
These are options you can modify:

.. table::

   +-----------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
   | Option                | Description                                   |
   +=======================+===============================================+
   | Default view mode     | Standard view mode when you open the process  |
   |                       | list.                                         |
   +-----------------------+-----------------------------------------------+

Portal will use the default value defined by the administrator if you don't select an option.  

Task list configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This section has available options which help you to modify your Task list.
These are options you can modify:

.. table:: 

   +-----------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
   | Option                | Description                                   |
   +=======================+===============================================+
   | Default sort field    | Default sort field when you open a task list. |
   +-----------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
   | Default sort direction| Default sort direction when you open a task   |
   |                       | list.                                         |
   +-----------------------+-----------------------------------------------+


Portal will use the default value defined by the administrator if you don't select an option.  

Case list configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This section has available options which help you to modify your Case list.
These are options you can modify:

.. table:: 

   +-----------------------+------------------------------------------------+
   | Option                | Description                                    |
   +=======================+================================================+
   | Default sort field    | Default sort field when you open a case list.  |
   +-----------------------+------------------------------------------------+
   | Default sort direction| Default sort direction when you open a case    |
   |                       | list.                                          |
   +-----------------------+------------------------------------------------+

Portal will use the default value defined by the administrator if you don't select an option.  

.. _language-settings:

Language settings
-----------------

**Language settings** allows you to specify your
preferred application language. This setting will affect all Axon Ivy
Portal pages and – if supported – your company's application pages as
well. The following languages are currently supported in the Axon Ivy
Portal:

-  English
-  German
-  French
-  Spanish

.. hint:: 
   Your application needs to support
   the same language as the one     
   selected in this menu. Otherwise 
   the application specific content 
   will be shown in the standard    
   language of the application. E.g.
   if your application only supports
   English, but you select Spanish  
   as the Portal language, your     
   application specific dialogs will
   still be shown in English.    

Email settings
--------------

**Email settings** allows you to configure your
preferences related to standard email notifications sent by the Axon Ivy
Engine.

.. hint:: 
   If configured by applications of your company, you might also be able to 
   configure application specific email notifications.   
..

The switch :guilabel:`Receive email notification on task assignment` allows you to 
specify if you want to receive an instant notification when a task is assigned to 
you or one of the roles you hold.

The switch :guilabel:`Receive further emails from application` allows you 
to activate or deactivate further email notifications.

The daily checkboxes :guilabel:`Receive daily summary at` allow you to specify the weekdays 
on which you receive a summary of all tasks assigned to you or one of your roles.

Date format configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This section allows you to configure the date field format.
These are the options:

.. table:: 

   +-----------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
   | Option                | Description                                   |
   +=======================+===============================================+
   | Default               | Default date format will be detected by       |
   |                       | browser's locale for your first login.        |
   |                       |                                               |
   |                       | Example: Default format is dd/MM/yyyy.        |
   |                       | Date fields will be displayed as "31/01/2021" |
   +-----------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
   | dd.MM.yyyy            | Date fields will be displayed by              |
   |                       | Day.Month.Year.                               |
   |                       |                                               |
   |                       | Example: With this format, date fields will   |
   |                       | be displayed as "31.01.2021"                  |
   +-----------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
   | MM.dd.yyyy            | Date fields will be displayed by              |
   |                       | Month.Day.Year.                               |
   |                       |                                               |
   |                       | Example: With this format, date fields will   |   
   |                       | be displayed as "01.31.2021"                  |
   +-----------------------+-----------------------------------------------+

.. |my-profile-save| image:: ../../screenshots/my-profile/my-profile.png

Commit message:

IVYPORTAL-13849 Apply language concept - Update document
Former-commit-id: 65e29b6641fc58d0dd69ff3c6fc4df957b28f67c

Documentation/portal-guide/source/portal-user-guide/my-profile/index.rst, after:

.. _my-profile:

My Profile
**********

Help you adjust your general settings, language, email settings and date format configuration.

|my-profile-save|

General settings
----------------

**General settings** allows you to configure some settings according to your requirements. This area
contains :guilabel:`Selected homepage` and :guilabel:`Show Welcome Tour`.

Process list configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This section has available options which help you to configure your Process list.
These are options you can modify:

.. table::

   +-----------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
   | Option                | Description                                   |
   +=======================+===============================================+
   | Default view mode     | Standard view mode when you open the process  |
   |                       | list.                                         |
   +-----------------------+-----------------------------------------------+

Portal will use the default value defined by the administrator if you don't select an option.  

Task list configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This section has available options which help you to modify your Task list.
These are options you can modify:

.. table:: 

   +-----------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
   | Option                | Description                                   |
   +=======================+===============================================+
   | Default sort field    | Default sort field when you open a task list. |
   +-----------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
   | Default sort direction| Default sort direction when you open a task   |
   |                       | list.                                         |
   +-----------------------+-----------------------------------------------+


Portal will use the default value defined by the administrator if you don't select an option.  

Case list configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This section has available options which help you to modify your Case list.
These are options you can modify:

.. table:: 

   +-----------------------+------------------------------------------------+
   | Option                | Description                                    |
   +=======================+================================================+
   | Default sort field    | Default sort field when you open a case list.  |
   +-----------------------+------------------------------------------------+
   | Default sort direction| Default sort direction when you open a case    |
   |                       | list.                                          |
   +-----------------------+------------------------------------------------+

Portal will use the default value defined by the administrator if you don't select an option.  

.. _language-settings:

Language settings
-----------------

**Language settings** allows you to specify your
preferred application language. This setting will affect all Axon Ivy
Portal pages, notification mails and – if supported – your company's application pages as
well. The following languages are currently supported in the Axon Ivy
Portal:

-  English
-  German
-  French
-  Spanish

**Formatting language settings** is used to format values, for example the decimal point is displayed differently in different regions of the world.

.. hint:: 
   Your application needs to support
   the same language as the one     
   selected in this menu. Otherwise 
   the application specific content 
   will be shown in the standard    
   language of the application. E.g.
   if your application only supports
   English, but you select Spanish  
   as the Portal language, your     
   application specific dialogs will
   still be shown in English.    

Email settings
--------------

**Email settings** allows you to configure your
preferences related to standard email notifications sent by the Axon Ivy
Engine.

.. hint:: 
   If configured by applications of your company, you might also be able to 
   configure application specific email notifications.   
..

The switch :guilabel:`Receive email notification on task assignment` allows you to 
specify if you want to receive an instant notification when a task is assigned to 
you or one of the roles you hold.

The switch :guilabel:`Receive further emails from application` allows you 
to activate or deactivate further email notifications.

The daily checkboxes :guilabel:`Receive daily summary at` allow you to specify the weekdays 
on which you receive a summary of all tasks assigned to you or one of your roles.

Date format configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This section allows you to configure the date field format.
These are the options:

.. table:: 

   +-----------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
   | Option                | Description                                   |
   +=======================+===============================================+
   | Default               | Default date format will be detected by       |
   |                       | browser's locale for your first login.        |
   |                       |                                               |
   |                       | Example: Default format is dd/MM/yyyy.        |
   |                       | Date fields will be displayed as "31/01/2021" |
   +-----------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
   | dd.MM.yyyy            | Date fields will be displayed by              |
   |                       | Day.Month.Year.                               |
   |                       |                                               |
   |                       | Example: With this format, date fields will   |
   |                       | be displayed as "31.01.2021"                  |
   +-----------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
   | MM.dd.yyyy            | Date fields will be displayed by              |
   |                       | Month.Day.Year.                               |
   |                       |                                               |
   |                       | Example: With this format, date fields will   |   
   |                       | be displayed as "01.31.2021"                  |
   +-----------------------+-----------------------------------------------+

.. |my-profile-save| image:: ../../screenshots/my-profile/my-profile.png
