Documentation/PortalDeveloperGuide/source/customization/portal-style-customization-logos-colors-date-patterns.rst, before:

.. _customization-portal-logos-and-colors:

PortalStyle customization (logos, colors, date patterns)
========================================================

.. _customization-portal-logos-and-colors-change-portal-logos:

Change Portal's logos
---------------------

You can change logo and login logo by modifying default logo in
PortalStyle project.

-  Modify cms entry ``PortalStyle/images/logo/CorporateLogo.png`` to
   update homepage logo when menu is expanded.

   .. tip:: We recommend you to use an image with width size is 168 pixel to fit the left menu size when it's expanded
   

-  Modify cms entry ``PortalStyle/images/logo/SmallCorporateLogo.png`` to
   update homepage logo when menu is collapsed.

   .. tip:: We recommend you to use an image with width size is 42 pixel to fit the left menu size when it's collapsed

-  Modify cms entry ``PortalStyle/images/logo/loginLogo.png`` to update
   login logo.

-  Override the variables: ``$loginLogoHeight``, ``$homeLogoHeight`` in
   ``variables.scss`` to scale your logos.

   .. _customization-portal-logos-and-colors-change-portal-background:

Change Portal styles
--------------------

Portal applies |sass_framework| framework to support
you in customizing styles of Portal. They are ``theme.scss`` and ``variables.scss``.

   - ``theme.scss`` in ``PortalStyle/webContent/resources/serenity-portal``
   - ``variables.scss`` in ``PortalStyle/webContent/resources/sass/ivy``

.. caution:: Please do not modify directly on these files because they can be changed by new Portal version for upgrade.

..

Below is the list of some Portal elements which are using primary colors of Serenity theme:

.. table::

   +-----------------------+-----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+
   | Variable              | Default value               | Description                                                    |
   +=======================+=============================+================================================================+
   | $primaryColor         | $primaryGreen: #c7d426      | - Background color of button (except Cancel button)            |
   |                       |                             | - Background color of Titlebar panel/selectcheckboxmenu header |
   |                       |                             | - Background color of selected checkbox/radio button           |
   |                       |                             | - Background color of process chain (except waiting state)     |
   |                       |                             | - Background color of hovered row in datatable                 |
   |                       |                             | - Portal header bar                                            |
   |                       |                             | - Label and bottom border of active input field                |
   |                       |                             | - Sidebar anchor                                               |
   |                       |                             | - Text color of active tab                                     |
   +-----------------------+-----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+
   | $primaryDarkColor     | $primaryGreen: #c7d426      | - Background color of toolbar                                  |
   |                       |                             | - Background color of datatable pagination                     |
   |                       |                             |   (except table in Case/Task detail)                           |
   +-----------------------+-----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+
   | $primaryLightColor    | $primaryLightGreen: #d7e52c | - Background color of hovered button                           |
   +-----------------------+-----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+
   | $primaryLightestColor | white                       | - Active checkbox icon                                         |
   |                       |                             | - Background color of active sidebar menu item                 |
   |                       |                             | - Topbar background color                                      |
   +-----------------------+-----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+
   | $primaryTextColor     | black                       | - For almost texts in Portal (except some specific styles      |
   |                       |                             |   like Case/Task Description in Case/Task list)                |
   +-----------------------+-----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+
   | $accentColor          | $primaryColor               | - Active submenuitem of sidebar                                |
   |                       |                             | - Background color of active items (form elements)             |
   |                       |                             | - Background color of active page number in datatable          |
   |                       |                             |   (except table in Case/Task detail)                           |
   |                       |                             | - Bottom border of active tab                                  |
   |                       |                             | - Border color of datepicker-today                             |
   +-----------------------+-----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+

You can customize in:

- ``font-faces.scss``: to replace default font url-s by your font url-s and add/change other font styles to customize the Portal's font styles.

- ``customization.scss``: to change styles of Portal. E.g. Portal's component styles.

.. tip::
   For ``font-size``, Portal uses ``rem``. 
   Font size of all elements are calculated based on font-size of ``html`` element. 

.. warning::
   - Do not change ``font-family`` property values.

   - Limitation: the task priority color customization hasn't changed the task priority colors in statistic.

   If you want to custom color of statistic, please refer to :ref:`Override Statistic color <override-Statistic-colors>`

After you finish your customization, compile these above scss files to
build the css file named ``theme.css`` and put it at
``PortalStyle/webContent/resources/serenity-portal``.
You are highly recommended to run the ``mvn libsass:compile`` maven
command in PortalStyle to do it quickly.

.. _customization-portal-logos-and-colors-changedatepatterns:

Change date time pattern
------------------------

You can change date pattern by modifying CMS in PortalStyle project:
``PortalStyle/patterns/datePattern`` and
``PortalStyle/patterns/dateTimePattern`` .

.. |sass_framework| raw:: html

   <a href="https://sass-lang.com/" target="_blank">SASS</a>

Commit message:

IVYPORTAL-9147: Various or urgent requests in IVYPORTAL S184 - Added favicon, small logo, login logo - Updated document of logo
Former-commit-id: 7c6d345b7e8a44a24a7f872cee1c745b9a46433f

Documentation/PortalDeveloperGuide/source/customization/portal-style-customization-logos-colors-date-patterns.rst, after:

.. _customization-portal-logos-and-colors:

PortalStyle customization (logos, colors, date patterns)
========================================================

.. _customization-portal-logos-and-colors-change-portal-logos:

Change Portal's logos
---------------------

You can change logo and login logo by modifying default logo in
PortalStyle project.

-  Modify cms entry ``PortalStyle/images/logo/CorporateLogo.png`` to
   update homepage logo when menu is expanded.

   .. tip:: We recommend you to use an image with width size is 168 pixel to fit the left menu size when it's expanded
   

-  Modify cms entry ``PortalStyle/images/logo/SmallCorporateLogo.png`` to
   update homepage logo when menu is collapsed.

   .. tip:: We recommend you to use an image with width size is 42 pixel to fit the left menu size when it's collapsed

-  Modify cms entry ``PortalStyle/images/logo/loginLogo.png`` to update
   login logo.

-  Modify cms entry ``PortalStyle/images/logo/faviconLogo.png`` to update
   favicon logo. Recommended size for favicon: 16x16 or 32x32 pixels.

-  Override the variables: ``$loginLogoHeight``, ``$homeLogoHeight`` in
   ``variables.scss`` to scale your logos.

   .. _customization-portal-logos-and-colors-change-portal-background:

Change Portal styles
--------------------

Portal applies |sass_framework| framework to support
you in customizing styles of Portal. They are ``theme.scss`` and ``variables.scss``.

   - ``theme.scss`` in ``PortalStyle/webContent/resources/serenity-portal``
   - ``variables.scss`` in ``PortalStyle/webContent/resources/sass/ivy``

.. caution:: Please do not modify directly on these files because they can be changed by new Portal version for upgrade.

..

Below is the list of some Portal elements which are using primary colors of Serenity theme:

.. table::

   +-----------------------+-----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+
   | Variable              | Default value               | Description                                                    |
   +=======================+=============================+================================================================+
   | $primaryColor         | $primaryGreen: #c7d426      | - Background color of button (except Cancel button)            |
   |                       |                             | - Background color of Titlebar panel/selectcheckboxmenu header |
   |                       |                             | - Background color of selected checkbox/radio button           |
   |                       |                             | - Background color of process chain (except waiting state)     |
   |                       |                             | - Background color of hovered row in datatable                 |
   |                       |                             | - Portal header bar                                            |
   |                       |                             | - Label and bottom border of active input field                |
   |                       |                             | - Sidebar anchor                                               |
   |                       |                             | - Text color of active tab                                     |
   +-----------------------+-----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+
   | $primaryDarkColor     | $primaryGreen: #c7d426      | - Background color of toolbar                                  |
   |                       |                             | - Background color of datatable pagination                     |
   |                       |                             |   (except table in Case/Task detail)                           |
   +-----------------------+-----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+
   | $primaryLightColor    | $primaryLightGreen: #d7e52c | - Background color of hovered button                           |
   +-----------------------+-----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+
   | $primaryLightestColor | white                       | - Active checkbox icon                                         |
   |                       |                             | - Background color of active sidebar menu item                 |
   |                       |                             | - Topbar background color                                      |
   +-----------------------+-----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+
   | $primaryTextColor     | black                       | - For almost texts in Portal (except some specific styles      |
   |                       |                             |   like Case/Task Description in Case/Task list)                |
   +-----------------------+-----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+
   | $accentColor          | $primaryColor               | - Active submenuitem of sidebar                                |
   |                       |                             | - Background color of active items (form elements)             |
   |                       |                             | - Background color of active page number in datatable          |
   |                       |                             |   (except table in Case/Task detail)                           |
   |                       |                             | - Bottom border of active tab                                  |
   |                       |                             | - Border color of datepicker-today                             |
   +-----------------------+-----------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+

You can customize in:

- ``font-faces.scss``: to replace default font url-s by your font url-s and add/change other font styles to customize the Portal's font styles.

- ``customization.scss``: to change styles of Portal. E.g. Portal's component styles.

.. tip::
   For ``font-size``, Portal uses ``rem``. 
   Font size of all elements are calculated based on font-size of ``html`` element. 

.. warning::
   - Do not change ``font-family`` property values.

   - Limitation: the task priority color customization hasn't changed the task priority colors in statistic.

   If you want to custom color of statistic, please refer to :ref:`Override Statistic color <override-Statistic-colors>`

After you finish your customization, compile these above scss files to
build the css file named ``theme.css`` and put it at
``PortalStyle/webContent/resources/serenity-portal``.
You are highly recommended to run the ``mvn libsass:compile`` maven
command in PortalStyle to do it quickly.

.. _customization-portal-logos-and-colors-changedatepatterns:

Change date time pattern
------------------------

You can change date pattern by modifying CMS in PortalStyle project:
``PortalStyle/patterns/datePattern`` and
``PortalStyle/patterns/dateTimePattern`` .

.. |sass_framework| raw:: html

   <a href="https://sass-lang.com/" target="_blank">SASS</a>
