Documentation/PortalDocumentation/source/portal-documentation/customization/portal-style-customization-logos-colors-date-patterns.rst, before:

.. _customization-portal-logos-and-colors:

PortalStyle customization (logos, colors, date patterns)
========================================================

.. _customization-portal-logos-and-colors-change-portal-logos:

Change Portal's logos
---------------------

You can change logo and login logo by modifying default logo in
PortalStyle project.

-  Modify cms entry ``PortalStyle/images/logo/CorporateLogo.png`` to
   update homepage logo.

-  Modify cms entry ``PortalStyle/images/logo/loginLogo.png`` to update
   login logo.

-  Override the variables: ``$loginLogoHeight``, ``$homeLogoHeight`` in
   ``variables.scss`` to scale your logos.

.. _customization-portal-logos-and-colors-change-portal-background:

Change Portal styles
--------------------

Portal applies `SASS <https://sass-lang.com/>`__ framework to support
you in customizing styles of Portal. They are ``theme.scss`` 
(in ``PortalStyle/webContent/resources/serenity-portal``)
, ``variables.scss`` (in 
``PortalStyle/webContent/resources/sass/ivy``).

.. caution:: Please do not modify directly on these files because they can be changed by new Portal version for upgrade.

You can customize in:

   - ``font-faces.scss``: to replace default font url-s by your font url-s and add/change other font styles to customize the Portal's font styles.

   - ``customization.scss``: to change styles of Portal. E.g. Portal's component styles.

.. important::
   - Do not change ``font-family`` property values.
   - Limitation: the task priority color customization hasn't changed the task priority colors in statistic.
     If you want to custom color of statistic, please refer to :ref:`Override Statistic color <override-Statistic-colors>`

After you finish your customization, compile these above scss files to
build the css file named ``theme.css`` and put it at
``PortalStyle/webContent/resources/serenity-portal``.
You are highly recommended to run the ``mvn libsass:compile`` maven
command in PortalStyle to do it quickly.

.. _customization-portal-logos-and-colors-changedatepatterns:

Change date time pattern
------------------------

You can change date pattern by modifying CMS in PortalStyle project:
``PortalStyle/patterns/datePattern`` and
``PortalStyle/patterns/dateTimePattern`` .

Commit message:

IVYPORTAL-7804 Consolidate FontSizes in Portal - Use REM and check alignment - Update document
Former-commit-id: 48c0e388a89b012157665584aec918db8a58f43e

Documentation/PortalDocumentation/source/portal-documentation/customization/portal-style-customization-logos-colors-date-patterns.rst, after:

.. _customization-portal-logos-and-colors:

PortalStyle customization (logos, colors, date patterns)
========================================================

.. _customization-portal-logos-and-colors-change-portal-logos:

Change Portal's logos
---------------------

You can change logo and login logo by modifying default logo in
PortalStyle project.

-  Modify cms entry ``PortalStyle/images/logo/CorporateLogo.png`` to
   update homepage logo.

-  Modify cms entry ``PortalStyle/images/logo/loginLogo.png`` to update
   login logo.

-  Override the variables: ``$loginLogoHeight``, ``$homeLogoHeight`` in
   ``variables.scss`` to scale your logos.

.. _customization-portal-logos-and-colors-change-portal-background:

Change Portal styles
--------------------

Portal applies `SASS <https://sass-lang.com/>`__ framework to support
you in customizing styles of Portal. They are ``theme.scss`` 
(in ``PortalStyle/webContent/resources/serenity-portal``)
, ``variables.scss`` (in 
``PortalStyle/webContent/resources/sass/ivy``).

.. caution:: Please do not modify directly on these files because they can be changed by new Portal version for upgrade.

You can customize in:

   - ``font-faces.scss``: to replace default font url-s by your font url-s and add/change other font styles to customize the Portal's font styles.

   - ``customization.scss``: to change styles of Portal. E.g. Portal's component styles.
.. tip:: For ``font-size``, Portal uses ``rem``. 
   Font size of all elements are calculated based on font-size of ``html`` element. 

.. important::
   - Do not change ``font-family`` property values.
   - Limitation: the task priority color customization hasn't changed the task priority colors in statistic.
     If you want to custom color of statistic, please refer to :ref:`Override Statistic color <override-Statistic-colors>`

After you finish your customization, compile these above scss files to
build the css file named ``theme.css`` and put it at
``PortalStyle/webContent/resources/serenity-portal``.
You are highly recommended to run the ``mvn libsass:compile`` maven
command in PortalStyle to do it quickly.

.. _customization-portal-logos-and-colors-changedatepatterns:

Change date time pattern
------------------------

You can change date pattern by modifying CMS in PortalStyle project:
``PortalStyle/patterns/datePattern`` and
``PortalStyle/patterns/dateTimePattern`` .
